- [Instructor] In Spring Boot two,
there's some pretty significant changes
to the configuration system in addition to
many of the configuration properties being changed.
One of the things to note
is the way that environment is bound.
The binding mechanism, for instance,
for @ConfigurationProperties has been completely overhauled.
Now for the average user,
this isn't going to provide a lot of changes,
but you may see some changes
if you are writing custom starters.
The rules around binding
have become a little bit more strict,
and those are really designed
to help you maintain your contract.
Now one of the new changes is the ability to do API binding,
so you get access to that API, that binding API,
from anywhere within your code,
not just within configuration properties.
Now some of those property file rule changes
and how they work
is that every property is now converted to all lowercase.
Special characters are removed.
You can define lists of properties,
so if you have a property that there isn't a list expected,
you can provide those with traditional array notation,
which is the open square bracket,
a number, and then the closed square bracket.
It's a zero-based index.
Or you can simply provide
a comma-separated content list
and have that mapped into a list, as well.
Now if you're not using property files,
but instead using YAML,
you're going to have very similar results.
So, the similar practice with the way
the property files works
as far as the case and special characters,
but you also get standard YAML formatted lists,
which is the little hyphen in front of the line.
You do not get the square bracket notation,
but that's okay because YAML provides its own way.
You do have support for comma-separated lists still,
if you need to use that.
Now I mentioned a moment ago about this binding API,
and I just want to talk a little bit about this.
This provides a mechanism
for binding properties directly into your code,
so if, for instance, you want to provide a list of values
as configuration property,
you can very easily create a class
and bind those to that class
through the traditional configuration properties
or through this binding API.
I actually kind of like the idea of binding API
because then I can see it in my code.
Now this supports single values as well as lists,
and you still get a converter support.
And this is really powerful
when you're dealing with things like duration,
or other traditional standardized formats,
so for instance 10s becomes 10 seconds in a duration.
There's several converters built in
outside of lists and duration.
Take a look at that in the documentation
and it'll give you an idea of how
this binding API can help you.
Now, configuration is one of those things
that we tend to set once and never look at again,
so it's not really that critical for an upgrade path
unless you run into issues,
which is why I wanted to talk about these
because if you had things that were previously accepted
that have now been excluded based on the rule changes,
it's important to make note of that
and to be aware as you're doing your upgrade from 1.5 to 2.0